How creepy.
Yeah.
I hate it.
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life swallowing their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Three: Perspective Episode Three: Perspective
Episode Three: Perspective I'm not on the court.
I'm not anyone on that court.
I can't just chase after the ball.
I need to put more of my all into it.
I forgot that I left the jerseys in the washing machine!
Oh crap!
I'll go hang them up!
Okay, thanks!
Third set!
Bring it!
Wakatoshi!
It didn't go up, but he at least reacted to it.
Don't worry about it!
I basically brace for impact and get all stiff, thinking the spike is about to come.
Left! Left!
Moving in sync with the blockers.
Guys who are really good are able to tell where the ball is gonna go just from reading the spiker's form.
For example, Morisuke from Nekoma or Daichi.
The spiker's form...
Nice spike!
Wakatoshi!
So cool!
It's hard to describe. It's like he doesn't make any unnecessary movements.
But even if I was able to move like that, my reach wouldn't be enough.
All right!
Come to think of it, I don't usually get to watch Noya from behind.
During a match, during practice, or even when I'm watching matches on TV,
all I ever watch is the ball.
Semi Semi, better get that service ace!
Why are you calling me that?! Stop it!
That's the guy who was really good at serving during the finals!
Here comes an intense serve!
Nice receive!
Wait.
What's that called again?
Get one more, Semi Semi!
It's over!
Damn it!
Thanks!
It's just a tiny little movement.
Tama, practice passing with me!
What? Again?
Then help me practice first.
I already planned to!
Here I go!
Hit it back! You suck!
You're not gonna take it easy on me?!
You have really good reflexes, Hinata.
Sometimes you even hit the ball back decently.
Just sometimes.
But when I think about the fact that I'm about to hit the ball, I put up my guard and can't move.
In that case, take your feet off the ground.
That's a basic form of movement in tennis.
You got this!
Thanks!
What was it?
What else did Tama say?
Give us a good serve!
Want me to show you how to smash?
Whoo! A smash?!
No, wait. That wasn't it!
I wanted to do anything to stand out even more back then!
I'm such an idiot!
It was spa... S-Strap?
Spl...
Splatter step?!
No, split step!
Don't make it sound gross!
Split step!
The moment the other guy makes contact with the ball,
by picking up both feet from the ground, you reset your form.
Then you use the impact of your feet landing to propel yourself!
Damn it!
That guessing guy moves super fast to block.
Now that I think about it, he's completely different from Tsukishima.
That's a crappy place to hit the ball back!
When did he even look at their side?
He doesn't seem to be taking an extra step.
So there's more than one way to receive well.
Up until now,
I've only been chasing the ball.
But the court is so full of information.
Thank you very much!
Thank you!
See ya, Tsutomu. We'll be back.
R-Right!
I guess we're gonna start spending the night today.
Man, even the washing machines are great at Shiratorizawa!
Really?
By the way, Shouyou, aren't you cold wearing just a T-shirt?
I'll put a jacket on in a second.
In a second?
Just so you know, there's no food or lodging for someone who wasn't invited.
Y-Yes, sir!
We do have places he can sleep, though.
This camp has fewer people than most, and everyone sleeps in one big room together.
Hinata Shouyou came here to create a chance he wasn't given.
Whether or not that was successful,
the fact is that he wasn't chosen to be here.
And something similar is probably going to happen again.
I see.
Come on!
Help me practice a bit!
No thanks.
You're asking the wrong people.
I don't mind practicing with you.
Kindaichi!
Are you doing some extra practice?!
I'll pick up those balls for you.
S-Sure... Hell yeah!
You're not gonna hit any?
You're not gonna practice with us?
Why would I?
Show me those super-sharp straight spikes of yours!
The ones that get past blockers who are sure they got in front of a straight spike!
Like, whack!
How the heck do you even do that?!
Wh-When was the last time I felt like this?
This feeling I'd forgotten because I'm surrounded by cold or completely unreadable upperclassmen!
This feeling of being praised and adored!
You're so amazing, Tsutomu.
You're so tall, Goshiki!
You're our ace, Goshiki!
Y-You just need me to do straight spikes?
Maybe some cross-court spikes too!
Damn, he's a pushover.
Also, don't go underestimating what it takes to be a ball boy.
First, my position.
Nagamatsu's blocking over there, so that narrows down where the spiker can hit the ball.
I'm gonna get my hand on the ball.
How fast will I be able to get to where the ball is going to land?
I need to keep my eyes on the spiker, and then do a split st—
How crappy is my timing?!
Jumping's not the goal here.
I need to keep my body flat.
Too slow!
Way too slow!
Left!
Goshiki?!
Will he do one of his amazing straight spikes?!
No, wait. This is probably going to be...
a cross-court spike.
My hands were full...
But I was right about where it was going!
There was a blocker in the way for a straight spike,
and the set was a bit short.
He can't hit as close to the antenna as he usually can!
It's easier for me to hit if you can get the ball as close to the antenna as possible.
Roger!
There are times you can tell where the ball will go from the set too!
I'm just gonna have to hold out until I get home.
I couldn't wait yesterday and ate a hamburger.
I wonder what the food is like at a powerhouse school.
Hopefully Tsukishima actually ate something.
He likes to leave some food whenever the third-years aren't watching.
To get home, I take a bus,
then a one-hour train ride, then a 30-minute bike ride.
Your muscles are at their limits, so you recover by eating.
That's how you build muscle.
That's how you get stronger.
So eat.
Eat a proper meal.
My muscles definitely want to be repaired right now.
Usually, I'd be able to head straight home and dinner would be waiting for me, so I never really had to think about it.
What should I eat?
One sec.
Hey, what's up?
Coach, what should I eat?
What?
Oh.
Wait, I'm sorry. Is it okay that I ask you that?
Who the hell else would you ask?
First, you should be drinking a sports drink with amino acids.
But you probably already are.
Oh, right. Uh, one sec!
You'll need some protein too.
Even convenience stores have protein drinks now.
What you'll also need is carbs.
Something like a banana or 100% orange juice.
And then,
Go home and eat a proper meal!
Also, make sure you get some sleep.
Right! Thanks!
Right, then.
My brand-new travel toothbrush set.
I won't be able to use you just yet.
Just wait a tiny bit longer.
Haikyuu!!
Tokonami Tokonami Karasuno Karasuno
It doesn't matter if this is our usual gymnasium, Shinzen's gymnasium, or Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium.
You need to train your body to be able to do the same thing anywhere.
It's out!
You got this!
Sorry!
Got it!
Nishinoya!
Sorry!
Shake it off!
My bad!
Tanaka's little routine he does now that he does jump serves is somehow stupidly cool.
Though he still has to work on getting the ball over the net.
You'll get the next one!
Tokonami Tokonami Karasuno Karasuno
Hell yeah! We managed to win a set against Karasuno!
We can go to nationals now!
One lap of diving drills!
Yessir!
Wait, they actually have penalties?
Oh, we just do this all the time.
After getting so used to losing at the Tokyo training camp, I get the urge to do these even when we win.
Right?
Yeah, we sorta messed up the serves this set.
May we play another set?!
O-Of course.
The set is a bit high.
So...
he won't be able to hit it straight down!
Damn it! I was totally right too.
His movements are completely different from the first day.
It was too high. My bad.
I'm sure he's got extremely good natural athletic abilities,
and before, his movements tended to rely on instinct.
It was still inbounds. Nice spike.
But now, he's considering his movements.
Even though he's a bit clumsy currently,
as he builds more experience, Bring it!
his thinking will start to merge with his instincts...
and transform into intuition.
Not to mention, when he was blocking in the match against Shiratorizawa,
it seemed like he didn't even know the basics.
It seemed more like he was trying to find what worked best for him.
Nice spike!
Because he's so empty that there's no unnecessary filler.
Wait, wait. "Empty" was probably a bit too harsh.
Sorry about that, Hinata.
Whoa!
Once you're playing in an actual match, everything's more frantic,
and you don't know who's gonna hit until the very last second.
That part's different from tennis.
Not to mention, guys tend to hit the ball really fast.
So is there really time to incorporate the split step?
Break time!
Yes, sir!
I'm obviously moving around way less than in normal practices,
but all this thinking is making me hungry too.
Well?
Are the monster children still working hard?
Monster?
They totally seem like monsters! Karasuno's number nine and ten, I mean.
We... eat humans...
True.
I mean, you're basically a monster yourself, Wakatoshi.
I wonder if he'd get mad if I asked if he was worried about his brethren.
Here are your drinks!
Thanks.
Here!
Why are you like that?
Like what?
You always seem so desperate.
Well, I decided I was gonna defeat Kageyama.
But right now, he's All-Japan...
I figured he was there.
I mean, he's amazing too,
but he might be getting his ass whooped right now.
Oh?
Thanks!
Whoa, there!
I can hit it!
Nice save!
Crap.
Oh well. This is still the first set.
Sorry. Force of habit.
My bad.
A set that basically said, "Of course you're this far into your approach already, right?"
That's what I like to see!
Time for more spiking drills!
Yes, sir!
I'll go on this side!
O-Okay.
He seems way too excited to be a ball boy.
He kept getting them last night too.
Seriously?!
He's acting like...
he's the only one in the middle of a match right now.
Ugh, I hate this.
I always feel like I need to do something whenever I see him.
I need to smoothly read the next move too, not just when I get the ball.
I'm going to be receiving this spike.
I'm a receiver who's been tasked with defending a part of the court!
Dumbass.
I-I actually feel bad about that.
I keep tellin' you to keep yer damn eyes open!
Yes, sir!
Shiratorizawa Academy
Hey.
Yeah?
Come with me for a sec.
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Episode Four: "Easy"
Next time: "'Easy.'"